Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 42. In this
episode, Scott talks with Saranya
Barak creator of code newbie,
a community of beginner and
developing programmers. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I am chatting with
saran yet Barak. You are
the creator of code newbie.org,
which is a fantastic site.
It's us. It's actually a
community that you've started to
support a new programmers because
would you consider yourself a
newbie? Yeah, I've been programming,
I guess, professionally for about
nine months, graduated from a
programming boot camp. So definitely
a newbie. So your background
is not in computer engineering.
You don't have a degree
in software or computer science.
Yeah, exactly. I actually thought
that I was going to
be a doctor and I
consider that a huge bullet
that I dodged in God,
but I did three years
of premed. I wasn't really
hardcore with the sciences. I
taught organic chemistry. I did
biochemistry research. I was published.
And then in my senior
year I shadowed a doctor
for the first time and
I realized that I don't
actually want to save human
lives, which I feel like
is important if you want
to be a doctor. And
what I really liked was
the problem solving and the
difficulty of science and the
breaking things down and that
stuff. So instead I decided
that I was going to
be a journalist because I,
I written stories and I'd
done a lot of journalism,
both, you know, throughout my
college experience. And so, yeah,
I graduated with a double
degree in English and psychology
finished the premed track. And
when I did journalism, I
worked at NPR and I
worked at discover magazine for
a bit. And I realized
that I liked that creative
part. I like telling stories
and getting to talk to
people and hearing about their
lives and experiences. But that
part of science that I
loved was totally gone. You
know, I couldn't be analytical.
I couldn't break problems down.
I couldn't do all that
stuff. And so in that
process, I ended up reading
the Steve jobs book, which
got me interested in tech.
And that was the first
time I really thought of
technology as a possible career
option. And so from there
I said, okay, I need
to get into this world.
What is this world like?
And through startups, I ended
up at the flatter in
school and now I'm a
programmer. So are you saying
that it was the lack
of creation? Like you weren't,
when you were working as
a journalist or doing these
different things, you weren't making
something building. Exactly. I felt
like I wasn't creating things.
I was observing other people,
create things and then spinning
that into a story. And
you know, that's not to,
you know, devalue journalism or
writers or anything like that.
I think they're great. I
love it. I love writing
to this day, but it
just wasn't fulfilling and satisfying
to me. Did you know
that you were a builder
early on or did you
literally discover you were a
builder when you headed in
the wrong direction? I don't
think that I knew what
a builder was. My idea
of building and creating was,
you know, like the Legos
when I was a kid
or, you know, Barbie dream
house and things like that.
I didn't really understand what
it meant. I didn't even
know that it was an
option to make things. My
world was about either fixing
things, you know, I consider
doctors to fix human bodies
and such and, you know,
experiencing and observing, but I
didn't understand this idea of
having an idea alone and
then building it into something
that other people can use.
Tech really introduced that concept
to me. So do you
didn't have a computer growing
up or were you, do
you have like a PC
around the house, but you
didn't think about it as
anything more than a utility?
I'm curious. Yeah. I think
we got a computer when
I was nine years old
and that's really what it
was. It was for consumption.
You know, I used it
to play a couple games
and, you know, we're documented
type things up, but that
was pretty much it. And
what's interesting is I think
when I was either 12
or 13, I did one
of those making technology, more
diverse summer programs for mostly
African American teens and young
people. And I think it's
been a couple of weeks
soldering. I built an led
battery powered heart that my
mom knew nothing to do
with. And I did a
little bit of coding and
a few other techie things.
But once that program was
over, that was it. There
was no one to kind
of say, Oh, if you
like this, maybe you should
be a computer scientist. Maybe
you should be a programmer
there wasn't a next step.
So for me, I got
my little taste of creating,
but I thought that that
was a one time experience.
And I didn't understand that
I could do more with
it. Where are your parents
techies? No, definitely not. They're
both pharmacist and my mom's
still emails me about or
texts me about how to
email things. So, Okay. So
they're, they're medical people, right?
So this is why medicine
seemed like the obvious kind
of next step. Exactly. The
program that you did early
on. You said this was
in high school and it
was focused on increasing diversity.
It was focused on for
people of color. Did you
feel that that was necessary
in the sense of it's
something that is presenting an
option? Like, Hey, here's a
thing you maybe hadn't thought
of? I had no context
for it. I didn't really,
I mean, I grew up,
you know, at that time
I was, you know, in,
in DC and I had
a lot of minority friends.
My neighborhood was very diverse,
so I didn't really understand
this whole diversity in tech
issue as a thing. So
that didn't really mean anything
to me. But besides that,
I just felt like it
was this isolated thing that
someone thought would be fun
and interesting. And I didn't
understand the purpose. I didn't
really connect with the issue
it was trying to resolve.
And only now when I
look back at it, do
I get what they were
trying to do? Right. So
setting aside diversity and focusing
on you as an individual,
you are going through life
and you're trying to figure
out where your path is.
You arguably find a little
late, like, wait a second.
I can, I can build
this. I can build that,
but you've already got a
degree, a D a double
degree in totally unrelated fields.
Was that like, Oh, I'm
sorry, I'm committed. I have
to be an English major.
Well, I always knew that
I probably wasn't going to
get a job in with
something to do with English.
I did English because I
just really liked it and
I wanted an excuse to
write. And so, no, I
didn't really feel committed to
anything liberal artsy, if anything,
I feel like it's an
advantage and it's a strength
because in technology, you know,
I think it's easier for
me to, to write from
an honest place. I think
it's easier for me to
blog. I think it's easier
for me to speak and
do a lot of those
soft skill, liberal artsy things
that a lot of developers
may not do quite as
easily. So I think it's
an advantage. Did you think
I want to build, so
I need to go back
and get another undergraduate degree,
or maybe go into a
master's program and kind of
go from a BA into
more of a ms. Or
did you know that you
wanted to find a trade
school? Yeah, I looked at
all the options I looked
at, you know, possibly going
back and doing another four
years as an undergrad. I
thought about getting a master's.
And what I really wanted
was I wanted an opportunity
to try it and see
how committed I was and
see how far I could
get with as small investment
as possible. And so for
me, that meant doing a
programming boot camp. So before
I did that, actually I
did just a month on
my own learning to code,
trying to see how far
I could get as a
way to test myself and
see if I was actually
serious about my own ideas
and ambitions. And once I
did that, I applied to
the, to the Flatiron school.
And for me, that's gotten
me very, very far. And
from everything I've researched, that's
about as far as I
plan on going right now.
So I did consider everything,
but the bootcamp felt the
most realistic and just made
them, How did you know
a bootcamp existed? Cause I
think there are still people
who are discovering. I mean,
I even think people who
are listening to this podcast
might only have a sense
that these exist and what's
the difference between something like
the flat iron school, which
is a very well thought
of a programming school in
New York and something like maybe
a less well thought of
trade school, like, and again,
not to disrespect, anyone who
has a degree like this,
but your derives and your,
you know, computer tech Institute
type of degrees. Yeah. So
for me, the biggest difference
between flat, well, I found
out about bootcamps because I
just Google searched. I searched,
how do I learn to
code? And through lots and
lots of searches, I'm Cora
is also really great place
for answers. Bootcamps became, you
know, one of those options.
So that's how I found
out about it. And to
me, you know, I don't
know too much about Dubai
and the more traditional trade
school. So I can't really
speak to that, but I
can say that what appealed
to me about bootcamps in
general is it felt very
focused. It felt very applicable.
It felt very purposeful. It
wasn't, you're going to learn
this because you think it's
interesting and maybe it'll make
sense to you and you'll
get money from it. It
was no you're going to
make a career change. We're
going to help you get
there. And you're going to
be able to actually build
real things. So the tangibility
was very, very nice considering
my two liberal art, If
I may add a, a
thesaurus word, it was intentional.
It was intentional. Okay. So
these are focused programs that
are some number of months
long. How long was yours?
So really only three months.
I assumed somehow it'd be
six, nine a year, other
options, or is it always
just three months getting it
out? I think the shortest
is nine weeks that I've
seen. And the longest, I
think is six months. But
on average, they're about 12
weeks. And what is it
like? Is it a, just
a big glorious hackathon? Is
it just all fueled with
pizza and caffeine and you
all just pile in like,
like, like the MTV is
the real world, or is
it a job like nine
to five? I feel like
bootcamp, the a reality show
would be a really great
idea. So no pizza, lots
of coffee, definitely lots of
caffeine. It was really intense
at the end of the
day. I think that a
bootcamp is whatever you make
of it for me, you
know, that was my life.
I didn't see or speak
to anybody until it was
over, there was a pre-work
that we have to do.
That's about a hundred hours
of, you know, just the
basics of HTML and CSS
and Ruby and things like
that. And I did the
pre-work twice before I entered
the program where I was,
Oh yeah. Is this something
you pay for? Or is
this like, This is just
on your own pre homework.
Yeah. And when I got
to school, you know, they
started at nine o'clock. It
officially ended at six, but
most people were there, you
know, until nine or 10,
sometimes midnight. So yeah, that
was entirely my life. I
know that for other people,
because they either were working
part time or had a
family, they couldn't quite just
put in the number of
hours that I could, but
yeah, it was definitely full
time, a hundred percent. And
that's how you get the
most out of it. Okay.
So as with all things
in life, intentionality is so
significant. You, I assume you
told everyone that like, I'm
going into residency, not the
kind of residency that you
want, mom and dad, but
the one that is going
to have me successful on
the other side. Yes, yes.
Everyone knew. I said, I'm
starting this program. I'll see
you next year. Cause it
was like a fall program
and hopefully I'll be able
to build stuff. Then It
was this five days a
week or six, seven days
a week, Five days a
week. It's open during the
weekends too. And I definitely
went in most weekends, but
officially it's five days a
week. So schools like this
have different programs. You can
go in and say, I'm
going to do iOS or
I'm going to complete high
school or whatever, but you
did the, I'm going to
be a production ready developer.
And in this case they
focus on, on Ruby. Did
you, did you pick a
school or did you pick
a language and then find
a school? I kinda did
both. I think for me,
when I did the research
on what are good beginner
languages, the two that I
got were Python and Ruby,
and I kinda ended up
going through BB because most
boot camps taught Ruby. And
I also just heard really
great things about the Ruby
community and how supportive they
are and how a lot
of beginners are starting. So
it just kind of, you
know, kind of matched up
that way. So the bootcamps
I looked at, ended up
being Ruby on rails. No,
I taught as an adjunct
professor at a state school
for a while. And one
of the most challenging things
is when I saw people
and there's no way to
say this to be nice,
but they just probably shouldn't
be programmers. We tried, we
loved them. We held them,
we cried with them, but
it was just like, I
don't think you're wired this
way. Was it the pre-work
that kept that from happening
in the sense of someone
who didn't know someone who
couldn't put in 120 hours
of hard work as a
prep for this? Or did
you have people drop out?
Because just like, you know,
programming is not for me.
I think we had in
our class anyway, we only
had one person drop out
out of 44 of us.
And so I think that
for me, honestly, the very,
very first time that I
tried programming was actually a
year before I went to
the program to the flat
iron school. And I tried
MIT OpenCourseWare is, you know,
intro to programming class. I
can't remember what the one
It's all self study, just
autodidact on your own. Yeah.
And I did it, I
think for like two weeks
I got through four lectures
and it was the hardest,
most painful thing that I
could have ever put myself
through. And I got to
a point where I honestly
just felt like this just
wasn't for me. Like I
got to a point where
I said, I don't think
this is made for me.
I don't know what is
wrong with my brain, that
this isn't making sense, but
Seriously, God bless MIT OpenCourseWare
but if that's your introduction
to programming then yeah. It's
not for me either. I
actually have, this is a
true story and I'm embarrassed
to say this they're still
on my iPad. Like since
the day I bought the
thing, like four years later,
like it's sitting in the
like I university thing, every
time I get on a
plane, I'm like, ah, I
should probably watch that open
courseware. It's pretty hard work.
There's a brain for it.
I don't have that brain.
So I respect, I respect
that you did it. I
tried to do it. And
so, yeah, so that was
kind of my first taste
of it. And then when
I tried it again, a
year later, I had that
experience of knowing that it
was going to be hard
and I expected it to
be difficult and I expected
it to be very painful.
And so that wasn't as
big of an obstacle for
me anymore. And so I
think that a large part
of the wiring is more
of just setting your expectations.
And I found that for
people who went to, you
know, my bootcamp and did
the pre-work, they understood that.
And they had already kind
of started reshaping their brain.
And then there were some
who didn't do the pre
work and didn't have quite
the right expectation and the
right, you know, grit and
discipline. And so I think
it's not so much, you
know, should you be a
programmer or you born to
be a programmer? I think
it's more of, do you
understand that this is going
to be hard and that's
okay. And that's just part
of the game. I think
that's what matters more. So
do you, that kind of
brings me to my original
kind of like loaded question,
which is, do you think
just anyone can be a
program where there is no
limitation really like the idea
that it's some mysterious thing
only a special gifted few
can do is just, it's
just nonsense. Yeah. I do
think that anyone can be
a programmer, but if that
is scientifically not true, I
don't want to know about
it because I think that
the moment you start saying,
Oh, it's only for some
people, but it's really, really
easy to hit a roadblock
and think, Oh, I guess
I'm not one of those
people and to quit. So
whether or not it's true.
I like to believe that
anyone can do anything. And
that's just what I'm gonna
say. Nice. Nice. So then
going backwards, should we be
teaching kids programming at six
years old, 12, 18? When
do you start? I don't
know when the starting age
should be, but I think
it's kind of ridiculous that
I have to take four
years of history in high
school, but I take nothing
in technology that's just before
literally nothing like there's, you
know, electives, I guess, but
that's insane. And I feel
like regardless of whether or
not you want to do
computer science, whether you want
to be a programmer, I
think it's just such a
different way of thinking and
a different way of analyzing
everything that everyone should be
able to experience that for
at least a year, at
some point in public education.
I don't know when that
point is. I think the
sooner, probably the better, but
I think it definitely should
be required. So technology that's
a pillar like geography and
social studies and stuff. See,
I've always felt like another
thing that was missing was
like, home-ec like, hold on.
I don't know if you
did that, but we're different
generations, but like how to
balance checkbook, how to rent
an apartment. Like no one
teaches that you ended up
putting these like 25 year
old humans fully formed out
into the world who like
cannot boil water, make an
egg balanced checkbook, rent an
apartment, or like do anything
Exactly. Especially personal finance. That's
another huge one. Yeah. That's
home economics. That's that's first
the first thing that they
dropped. Right. So the fact
that they're not teaching these
basic skills, I think you're
right. I think that becoming
a developer or a builder
or someone who can at
the very minimum, write a
macro, not feel intimidated by
the machine. Right, right, right.
Yeah. Go ahead. I was
going to say that that's
a really big thing. Cause
I feel like when you're
used to using technology just
to consume stuff, you grow
up with this barrier, you
know, even now I keep
forgetting that I can just
look at the code and
figure it out on my
own. Like I have to
remind myself that. And I
think the biggest advantage to,
you know, having a hacker
mentality or a tinkerer mentality
early in life is you
get to interact and do
stuff and manipulate and control
and build in a way
that you're not used to.
Yeah. I, I, my wife
is a, is becoming a
nurse right now and she's
really struggling with the systems
that are put in place
by her school because they're
really old. You've probably remember
when you're in school, they're
using Blackboard and all of
these kind of weird little
web apps. That's literally like
transporting yourself back to like
1997 and Chrome keeps updating
every week. And she, and
like it worked last week.
I'm like, well, Chrome update
it. So she's like, well,
Chrome needs to stop updating.
And my answer is usually
try a different browser and
she's like, well, don't you
work on this stuff? Can't
you fix this for me?
Yeah. I don't really sorry.
I can't. But it, as
if she had the hacker
mentality, those things suddenly become
intuitive. So you've been going
out of your way as
a new member of the
community to make it feel
right for other people who
are in the community to
make them feel welcome. Did
you feel welcome? I did.
And I was very surprised
that I felt welcome, you
know, before the flatter in
school, I just heard a
lot about the tech community
and how unfriendly it was
for women and minorities and,
you know, I'm a black
woman. So I was absolutely
terrified and I was really,
really welcomed. And, and to
this day I've been, you
know, receiving nothing but support
and encouragement from my community.
And I feel like a
lot of that has to
do with, I entered through
a bootcamp and I was
kind of introduced through the
community of that bootcamp and
that community is already newbie
friendly. And so, you know,
yeah. And I think that
was huge. And so Then
it's friends of friends of
friends. So everyone is being
vouched for, as you work
outwards in the onion there
for different layers. Exactly. And
so everyone else is going
to be kind and friendly
and supportive and all that
good stuff. But the one
thing that I guess I
didn't like about it is
I felt very privileged that
I got to, you know,
I think with learning to
code, I ended up not
working for six months cause
I took time off before
the bootcamp. And then I
spent, you know, thousands of
dollars on the bootcamp itself.
So I felt very, very
privileged to have the opportunity
to do that and to
afford that. And the most
valuable thing I got out
of it really was the
community like that has carried
me so far. And I
didn't like the idea that
people who couldn't afford to
do what I did wouldn't
have that community. And if
you don't have it, it's
really, really lonely and really
frustrating to learn to code
on your own. So I
started the code newbie, Twitter
chat to provide that sense
of community for people who
can't necessarily get it from
a book. Yeah. Bootcamps are
surprisingly expensive, they clearly work.
And they're clearly a business.
You know, most of these
are not nonprofits, but you're
right. There's a gap between,
Hey, just go to Khan
academy.org/cs or code Academy or
Treehouse or Pluralsight and learn
in silence and alone. Right.
And then pay $10,000 or
something for, for this to
be injected directly into your
brain. Where's that middle ground.
Where's that middle ground. Yeah.
I think there are some
companies that are trying to
fill that space. There's, you
know, the Viking school, which
is doing an online program
there's Thinkful, which is doing
like mentorship and online programs.
I think Tealeaf Academy is
another one. So I think
there's, there's an obvious need.
And I think that people
know there's a need for
some kind of middle ground.
I think they're trying to
fill it. So my way
of filling it is to
just start a chat. Hmm.
So at code newbie, and
this is N E w
I E not noob like
an OB and we'll put
links in the show notes,
you've got a Twitter chat.
Now Twitter chats are interesting.
Do people need to sign
up for Twitter to see
these chats? Not to see
it. I think you can
search for the hashtag and
anybody can, you know, just
be an observer, but to
participate, you do have to
be on Twitter. And Twitter
chats are kind of a
recent last couple of years,
a feature it's basically not
a feature of Twitter. It's
just everyone agrees to use
this hashtag in this case
code newbie at a certain
time, you say it's on
a, what is the day?
Wednesday nights, 9:00 PM. Eastern. Okay.
So Wednesday night. So then
anyone can get involved West
coast or East coast. And
presumably of course, people overseas,
if they're awake. And if
everyone agrees to say hashtag
code newbie y'all can have
some pretty compelling conversations. Yep.
Exactly. Has this started into
a, a new community of
people that you've met or
is it mostly just people
that are, have gone through
your programs? It's funny initially
I thought that it would
be filled with, you know,
new developers like myself who
graduated or recently graduated from
a bootcamp, but it's actually
not a lot of the
people that we have are
split between more experienced developers
who want to give back
to the community. And then
the other half are people
who are even newer than
I am, who are mostly
just using code Academy or
code score or, you know,
or in some neighborhood or
town where there's just not
a big developer community and
code newbie is their way
of being part of the,
of the tech community On
your, on your Twitter account
at twitter.com/code newbies, a plural.
There's some really cool stories
that you are retweeting people
saying, you know, Hey, I,
I met my goal of
10 hours of development this
week to really find out
like what that's like. And
I started in Ruby this
week and I coded for
a full 10 hours. It's
a pretty amazing stuff. Yeah.
It's great to see the
things that, that they build
and they're excited about and
people blog about what they
work on. We had one
person working on an app
for Ferguson and we've just
had some incredible work there.
And it's, it's exciting because
you get to celebrate the
little wins. Right? A lot
of times I think a
recent, a recent tweet was,
you know, this is kind
of embarrassing, but I finally
got this really simple Ruby
script to work. And every
one of the going to
be community retweeted that in
favor of that and said,
you know, this is great.
You should totally own this
when, so it's a place
where even the things that
may not seem too exciting
are celebrated and encouraged. It
seems like when someone's been
in the industry for five,
six years, even 10, or
like in my case, 20
years, those little, those little
achievements, you know, I got
my CSS to do around
the corner, or I figured
out how to do this
in full screen mode. People
like me are like, Oh,
you guys, but you, you
have to look at it
with the same kind of
wide eyed excitement. Cause this
is an entire universe that
people are discovering that we,
people who are inside you
and I totally take for
granted. Yeah. I remember the
very first time I learned
CSS and I turned the
background, yellow blew mind, just
blew my mind. I was
so excited that I turned
the background yellow because for
the first time I was
controlling the computer in a
way that I never had.
And so if anything, I
see the handle on the
site as a way to
just be a cheerleader for
everyone. And to just say
like all those little steps
you're taking, you're on your
way to somewhere really important
and really big. I think
that so, so many people
just don't understand that like,
Hey, you push a button
on the remote control TV
turns on and you know
what happened there? There's I
think there's a mindset. I
always call it the taking
apart, the toaster mindset, like
there's this there's people who
make toast. And there's people
who like make the totally
how the hell did that
thing make toast. And then
they start taking it apart,
you know? And some people
come built in that way
and they take stuff apart.
But other people, you really
need to take something apart
in front of them and
go look now here, you,
you put this back together.
And when you do that
on the web, like you
said, you changed some CSS.
One of my favorite things
I'm going to do this
weekend at a conference called
blend conference, teach a bunch
of middle schoolers, how to
surf the web from Telnet.
Like you have to go
into Telnet, open the socket
to port 80 type, get
HTTP, cnn.com and hit enter.
And then suddenly you're like,
wait a second. There's an
underneath. Yep. You know, it's
almost like showing them the
basement. Like I look at
all the cool stuff we
have in the base. Yeah.
That's fantastic. So what are
your plans for code newbie
right now? It's a Twitter
chat. It's a website. It's
a mailing list. What's next?
Yeah. So one thing that
we're doing the podcast and
when we actually recorded our
first episode, hoping to do
a couple more and I'm
really excited because, you know,
I listened to a lot
of tech podcasts and I'm
actually, I'm a panelist for
Ruby rogues and it's great.
But a lot of times
I feel a little bit
lost because a lot of
the topics are complex. The
guests that we have are
definitely experienced programmers. And so
I really liked the idea
of having a podcast just
for newbies and directed at
newbies and focusing more on
the journey of coding and
less so on kind of,
you know, the, the end
product, if that makes sense.
So that's one thing I'm
really excited about. The other
thing is we have so
much information and so many
resources being shared on Twitter,
and it's great to see
that energy and that support
in the community. But it's
also frustrating because Twitter like
goes away, you know, the
tweets kind of evaporate and
just a couple hours. And
so I'm really looking forward
to starting a discussion board
and kind of moving the
community to a place where
you can go back and
reference the resources that you
share. So those are my
two really big goals. So
thinking about maybe like forums
or something like maybe discourse,
which I think is a
Ruby application. Yep, exactly. Very
cool. So people will be
able look at this, of
course, code newbie.org for your
personal journey. Are you programming
professionally now? What are your
plans? What kind of things
are you building now that
you can build? Yeah. So
it's funny, I'm literally in
between jobs right now. So
I just finished a seventh
month residency at the New York
tech meetup, which is the
largest meetup organization in the
world, focusing on technology. Yeah.
We have over 40,000 members
at this point. And so
I spent the last seven
months building a platform with
one other developer. We pretty
much did everything. Ourselves is
incredible, especially as a first
job for a programmer. And
then in a few months
I'm going to be starting
at thought bot as a
developer apprentice. So the next
couple months are kind of
focused on me building out
code newbie and really ramping
up on my skills and
you know, doing a lot
of stuff for the community.
So you said developer apprentice,
which is interesting because I
have, I've had a gentleman
on the show a couple
of weeks ago who talked
about what it means to
be a junior engineer. And
I found that there's a
certain amount of entitlement. I
think amongst computer people, you
may have come upon folks
that are like, Hey, I've
been, I've been doing this
for three years. I'm a
senior engineer, like, and in
particular, and also technology is
moving so fast. Some of
these technologies have only existed
for a year. So there
was like that joke. What's
the name of the, the
new technology that Apple came
out, that it replaced objective
C Swift. So Swift comes
out and then like the
next day, like you go
to monster.com and it's like,
I'm looking for a senior
Swift engineer with five years,
experience things move so fast.
You know, who is a
junior engineer who is a
senior engineer and when you're
an intern, do you, do
you feel bad about being
an intern? You're like, I'm
just an intern or do
you think this is an
amazing opportunity? How do you,
how do you take that?
Yeah. So when I worked
at New York tech meetup, I
felt like I had way
more responsibility than anyone would
ever give me at that
point. And so, you know,
it was interesting because I
felt like it was a
great opportunity to prove myself
and to, you know, show
everybody what I could do
and all that. But I
also learned everything the hard
way, right? Cause there's no
senior person to say, Oh,
I've tried this before. Maybe
you should do this. And
not that, or that gem
is totally awful. Do this,
use this instead. And so
without that, you're kind of
testing a lot of stuff
and you're starting from scratch
over and over again. So
I'm really excited, honestly, to
be in a more junior
role, you know, as far
as official titles go, because
I've learned that I need
to be a student more,
you know, I think that
I would learn more and
get a lot further by
having someone more senior than
me kind of guide me
through a process that I
would just continuing to hack
along. So it definitely showed
me how far I can
get, and I'm really proud
of my progress, but I'm
very, very happy to be
back in more of an
apprentice role. How do you
separate the non, the non
technology specific concepts in your
mind? Like for example, if
I were to go work
on New York tech meetup, you
know, like I said, I've
been in the industry 20
years, but I would probably
work for you because I
don't know Ruby and I
don't know rails. Right. I
mean, I have a general
understanding. I've read some books,
I've done a couple of
projects, so I've got a
systems architecture background and I
can build large systems. And
I know how at a
theoretical level, those things work.
Yeah. Which you may not
have, but at the same
time, you know, so how
do you think you and
I would work together? It,
what I work for you
or we'd work for each
other. We'd be peers. I
think, however we word, I
think you and I would
have a blast That is
clear. Yeah. But you know,
I think that we'd actually
compliment each other very well
because what I found interesting
about that was it wasn't
the coding that was hard.
Like actually getting things to
work was not the hard
part. That part was actually
fine. The hard part was
understanding what features should take
priority, what order to do
them in, how long do
you bang your head against
the wall before you move
on to a different solution,
it was product development issues.
It was decision-making, it was
more of that stuff than
it was anything language or
framework specific. So what I'm
yeah, yeah, definitely. And it
was also, you know, this
is a skill I totally
underestimated. It's also talking to
nontechnical people, you know, which
I, you know, when, you
know, Jessica Lawrence, who's the executive
director and it's a very
small office. It's just her
and one other person. And
then the two developers and
we would meet every week
and touch base. And I
was never quite sure how
much to explain how much
I should be telling her
how much she cared to
know it was, it was,
it was very, very uncomfortable.
That alone is a skillset
I would love to learn.
That is a really interesting,
yeah, because it's like, I'm
gonna use this gym, you
know, I don't really care,
but, but at the same
time there might be licensing
issues. What do we, as
an organization use as far
as our opensource license and
we don't want to bring
in GPL code, whatever. Right.
And even things like, you
know, Oh, this feature will
take a couple of days
to build, Oh, it took
two weeks. Let me now
I have to explain why.
And if you don't know
the, you know, the tech
behind why then nothing I'm
saying will make sense and
you might think I'm an
idiot. So it's really important
to know how to talk
to the nontechnical. Very, very
cool. Well, it's just an
absolute joy to talk with
you saran yet bark, you
can check out saran@codenewbie.org. We'll
put links to their Twitter,
chat, their website, their podcast,
which will probably be out
by the time this podcast
is out and as well
as being able to connect
on Twitter. Thanks so much.
Yeah. Thanks so much. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week.